//Basic revision of elementary Trigonometry
//@author: C0MPU73R

The basics of trigonometry started with the study of triangles back in the ancient Greek days, in which more tools were added
to the field over the years.

We can first start with something called the unit circle, which is a special type of circle that has a radius of 1 and is centered at the origin
of the XY plane. The equation for it is: x^2 + y^2 = 1.
The circle has a variety of properties that can help us in the world of trigonometry.
The circle is actually created by taking our number line. 
That line is then wrapped around in a circle shape from some point back to the original point.
This is done in a counterclock wise direction. This is the positive part of the number line.
The negative part of the number line is wrapped in the clockwise direction. 

The line is essentially wrapping the circle an infinite number of times in the said direction,
which gives us an infinite number of points on the circle.

We call the initial point on the circle at (1,0), the start of the unit circle from 0 degrees or 0 radians
This exact same point is inifinitely mapped to anytime we complete one whole rotation of a circle and end up back at that point
So the first time we orbit a circle from 0 and back to that same point, the value is now 2*pi since we completed one full rotation.
This particiular value is also the cicrumference of our circle since our unit circle has a radius of 1 and C = 2*pi*r = 2*pi*1

We can also go in the negative direction from 0 and end back up at the same point, but this time the  value will be -2*pi because we traversed in the clockwise direction.
If we were to start at 0 again, and do 2 full traversals in the counter-clockwise direction and end up back at (1,0) our value would now be 4*pi, because we went around the circle twice.
This is actually also 720 degrees, which is 2 times the number of degrees in a circle.

ASIDE: This was also a really popular sniper trickshot in the videogame "Call of Duty" back in the mid-2000s. The player, a using a sniper rifle, would jump and spin around twice from some start point, then aim for its target and make the shot.
This shot was known as the 720, which was a bit more impressive than a 360.
 

We also have serveral other notable points such as a quarter of the circle, at point (0,1) at 90 degrees or pi / 2.
This value is easily found by taking the circumference of out our unit circle, 2pi and taking 1/4 of it which =2pi(1/4) = pi / 2. This is in the counter-clockwise direction. 

We also have a point to represent 3/4 of the circle at the point (0,-1), which is 3pi / 2 or 275 degrees.

We can also look at how arcs on the unit circle work:
If we are given a segment, we can ffind  a way to map it it on a circle.
Let's take the segment [0,pi/2] and map it on the circle with the connecting points of (0,1) and (1,0). 
If we take [a,b] this is a closed interval which means a is the inital point of the arc and b is the terminal point of the arc.
aka Therefore the clossed interval [0, pi/2] has the inital point (1,0) and terminal point (0,1)

We can now use the all the above ideas to define two major functions that apply to circles.
These function tools will allow us to model cools things that happen periodically; such as the tides in a body of water, the amount of sunlight during the
days of the years, the orbit of the planets, and more.

We can define two major circular functions
The Sine function and the Cosine functon.
ASIDE: Awesome functions! Can do really neat things with these!

We can go ahead and define these functions in terms of the unit circle

Let's go ahead and look at the unit circle and apply some arc to it.
Let's have the arc start at the point (1,0), which is directly on the x-axis.
This will be called our initial point.
We will have the arc end on some terminal point called P(t), where t is the length of the arc.
We can now define the cosine and sine of the arc as the x and y coordinates of point P.
This makes its so: P(t) = (cos(t), sin(t))
Hence: The cosine and sine values are determined by the arc t. And the cosine and sin are the functions of the arc t.
*If the real number t is the directed length of an arc (positive or negative) measured on the unit circle x^2 + y^2  = 1
with the initial point (1,0) and terminal point (x,y), then cosine of t and sine of t are defined to be
cos(t) = x and sin(t) = y.

Something easy to point out: We can easily find the sine or cosine of certain values based on the simple points we already know
so for (-1,0) we know this arc length to be pi:therefore the cosine of pi is -1 and the sine of pi is 0.

Cosine and sine functions are known to be  circular functions because their values are determined by the coordinates of points on the uunit circle.
Given a real number t, there is a corresponding arc starting at the point (1,0) of some directed length, t that lies on the unit circle.
The coordinates of the end point of this arc determines the values of cos(t) and sin(t)


Some basic properties of the sine and cosine functions:
 - Domain and range:
Sine's domain exists infiintely in both directions, and its range will propegate between one aand negative one
The same thiing for cosine.

Applying Pythagoras' identitiy.
Since we now knoe the equation for a circle, specifically the unit circle where x^2 + y^2 = 1, we can now
apply our new found sin and cos equations. Since sin(t) = y and cos(t) =  x,
they can fill in the spot in our circle equation for x and y
This gives us : (sin(t))^2 + (cos(t))^2 = 1.

